 
The Great Riletto
 
Collected Poems by David G. Rilett
 
 
The Great Riletto
 
At the end of the world, a lighthouse beacons the sailor home from the sea,
From the realm of the sea goddess who lives in a palace at the bottom of the sea.
At its feet, giant rocks lie fastened by chains, attempting to hold the shore in place,
Keeping it from answering the song of the sea, that old, mystery that called Odysseus.
 
The song is a song of passion, of love and hate, fear and courage, pride and envy.
It is also the sound of life and death - the place where love and lust find their fragrant melody.
Small fragments of the shore heed her call and escape the oppression of the rocks,
Abandoning themselves to ride the whirlpool to the palace of the sea goddess below.
 
At the end of the world, the lighthouse lies ruined and dark, no longer beaconing.
Above the rubble of broken bolder and rusted chain, the gulls circle,
sea-calling.
Beneath them, a man gazes at the moving, restless heart of the water and dreams of love,
He is there to ride the whirlpool, to live the passion of the sea and calls to her -
"Find me... carry me away ... forever."
 
February 9, 1998
 
 
Postscript to Madrid
 
Four days and I don't belong
In the refrigerator,
Ice crystals on windows,
Living in fear of insanity
and suicide,
or forgetting with a stone heart,
Every vacuity a thought of you.
 
Yet another year with no death in it.
The zoom-lens effect of sleeplessness
and codeine,
Lung-problem pamphlets
play pan pipes.
 
Remember the gypsy boy with rolless
Castanets
in Plaza Matute?
 
Now you're in an icy Italian pension,
Boat riding in Venice
Dancing with another time.
 
1974
 
The Escapina
It rained very hard on the day you cried
as a ghost from the past laid a hand on the line
the shawl on the chair with a strand of your hair
another "goodbye will you call when you can"
 
In the music you made with a touch from your hand
was a sadness of longing, the touch of your lips,
a torrent of water rushing down to the sea
from the wife of a sailor who crys, "Please remember me."
 
"Please return from the sea as you promised that day
as we embraced by the shore on the shawl that I wore."
He remembers the shawl from a far-distant land
He remembers the music she made with her hand
 
"Trust my beloved in the love that we shared
Trust I'd remember you lips and the shawl that you wore"
"Trust my beloved in the love that we shared
Trust I'd remember you lips and your escapina"
 
Jammin' Orpheus
12 feb 1998
the invisible rocks hide in an opaque sea
and gray areas of gray seek boundaries of
gray in the medium-gray dawn.
issues of prophecies on the star-moon day
her deep moods paint the dawn
riding out the storm of petrification
dinosaurs rise from the invisible swamp
as her deep moods paint the dawn
far across the darkness in your eyes
lies a field of torque-grass under the Jamacian dawn
there we sleep at night
and come out to howl at the gods
and your deep moods paint the dawn
Jammin Orpheus smokes a funnel of torque
and Euridice calls him back to the opaque sea
far across the darkness of your eyes
as your deep moods paint the skys.
 
SOUND SKY AND MOON
Feb 15, 1998
 
There is one pure thought
that no thought is completely
pure --
there is no heart that is completely
true.
 
Brandishing the heavens, her voice
(you know, Eridice)
calls her lover, Orpheus,
as he leans over his instrument
turning the keys in preperation to
(get this, this is interesting)
PLAY THE MORNING SUN INTO THE SKY!
(as if nature were some plaything
for two lovers).
She has that talented look,
very experienced and dark.
Her lover a pale, horseless singer
of dawns and goodbyes and longings
for what can not linger in the heart.
 
When he is ready, he begins his song,
and she her dance of saints and souls
(and sometimes of Orpheus).
 
There is is only pure surrender to passion
in those songs -- a submission to the
dominion of the dawn -- a haunted memory.
Once asleep, the heart free, we eternally
surrender.
When strings storm the gates of our hearts,
and the sounds of hand and feet make music,
it will be dark.
But soon the sounds we make rise to heaven
(or wherever these plans are made)
and the day is born --
a beautiful, golden sun-child.
Xochile is her name,
a pretty flower, "beautiful as the dawn."
 
The embers in the fire fade away.
Orpheus gazes at his gypsy girl,
so pure in her passion, the black moon,
high, distant, unattainable.
He is hers but she is not his.
 
Soon she is gone
(except for her haunting),
returned to the pure black of the
opaque sea,
where she forgets the
sound
of his hand on the strings as she danced.
And Orpheus is doomed to sun the reddening
sky,
while his heart worships an invisible, black
moon.
The Return
 
Musician is and interesting term:
a player of musics knowen and distante.
A rider for muses perhaps.
Ezekial's wheel slowly turns at the bottom
of an invisible ocean of air.
Asexual,
Asocial,
Eusocial, unfriendly moments whisper a secret
that the spreads across the red horizon in the west
like a wound that cannot heal itself.
 
The muses have a game they play with lovers.
They give them haunting memories to follow them
like hungry ghosts wherever they go,
whenever they see the sun reflected on the lake in
Central Park.
They love me and want me to suffer as they do
to long for life
for a chance the defy the whisper that follows as well.
 
Her lips were loving that day
like my mother's last kiss before she died.
Full of a strange longing for life,
something almost sexual.
Perhaps the mother's love for a child
that is beyond the child's grasp.
 
Planes are fast,
life is short.
 
Though we run,
fast,
sleep,
dream,
work on our attitude.
Don't drink too much,
smoke,
love,
and smile,
there will be no more planes lined up on the tarmac,
the heat rising from mighty exhausts,
launching, one after another, into the sunset,
rapid fire,
to penetrate the world egg,
and fertilize the reddening sky.
No more cab rides with her sweet, perfumed, dark hair,
no sweet "good night."
She cannot love me.
 
 
Feb. 1998
Duende on Central Park West
 
(February 1998)
 
Like the steep funnels of an Arabian dune,
long and smooth, and bent in a feminine way,
dark and foreign to the eyes of a stranger,
pulsing with life and passion and danger,
a limb, a sigh, a tomb, a razor,
her terse body lies beside me in the dark,
quiet but not exhausted from the Arabian dance.
 
There was a minor tune, a slap, a curse, a goodbye.
Her terse body lies in the dark alone,
quiet but not exhausted from the Arabian dance,
thinking of the eyes of a stranger,
and the life she once left be free --
a man who withered in her absence.
But love is a hard game, and the time is near,
a limb, a sigh, a tomb, a razor,
The time is here.
 
 
 
The Sea is Born
 
Ink runs down its riverlets,
shadowing the ground
where life wears its camoflague
of dirt.
 
Angry, tired jays begin to molt blue flightfeathers,
issuing a steady repetoire of curses,
a call to march against the north wind,
against death itself.
 
The day-lillies swim to the surface
and sprout tiny faces of lime...
 
as if
a goddess had arrived,
a healer of hard wounds,
a softener of hearts.
 
Roses thicken in anticipation of combat,
yellow sun on yellow grass.
Blue sky with a shadowing of ink,
She passes, testing the vine's ripeness
with a kiss.
 
 
 
Snow Fell
 
Out of an ink-blotter sky,
snow fell.
 
Each tendril, desirous of the loving sun,
withdraws its grasp on the maple,
each drop of precious water
now a rock,
like the unswallowable lump,
when love dies.
 
Out of an ink-blotter sky,
snow fell.
 
The vine had reached out in
an innocent wish to be loved,
now it must quit its grasp
and withdraw -- blasted,
once again looking inward,
to the warmth of past springs.
 
 
Live in the sun, my Attis,
may the warm sea breezes
toss your hair in my absence,
may you grasp tightly, my vine.
Keep this in your heart--
though blasted by the years,
another springtime awaits,
with sun and rain and flowers
to please lovers,
winter must flee from Persephone's mercy,
and the sky will fill your heart with joy.
 
Out of an ink-blotter sky,
snow falls.
 
Sappho
 
 
Ralph 124C41
( March 5, 1998)
 
There was something unreliable about the springtime snow.
The ever-present damp threatened to turn ironic.
Frozen water shines the surface of the cosmos,
Only showing the tenderness of rain on few occasions --
Perhaps only here and there, now and then.
Mostly cruel, it gives life,
But mostly it admires its own reflection
in its own reflection,
a shining force to be dealt with.
 
So in rejection we see ourselves.
 
Where did the song fail to touch,
Where did the words fail to heal?
But the surface remains a mirror,
A secret well-kept yet familiar--
A double.
 
Better days lie ahead they say.
Someday the complex rhythms of the dance
Will match the heartbeat of the
Song.
So melody,
So harmony.
So hands,
Soul,
Sound as one cumulative call
Of reassurance.
 
Better days lie ahead
To the beat of the cajon,
The snap of snare,
Shoe,
Cymbal,
Castanets.
Serpentine cadences stair-step from Steinway,
A commitment to an abstract-concrete marriage
Of creativity and form,
Tradition and innovation.
"Better days.."
 
Never again to be lost.
 
When the train left for Russia,
The boys were on it,
The mother off to America.
Fifty years gone.
 
In the back of its mind,
The super-computer
(Hidden away in the Swiss Alps,
With a smile on its non-existent
Face)
Ponders.
"I will bring the boys home
to the lost lives
Razor-cut an the platform
In Germany,
As the cruel snow fell,"
Thinks the muse in a machine,
"Like the boys in Homer...
Home to Attica."
 
Better days are ahead.
 
Ralph 124C41,
The first to find a date
On-line,
Is now an old man on the news.
"What was it like the first time you chatted?"
Asks the reporter newly arrived from the Lunar Colony,
"When did you know..."
As if bored by all,
Repressing yawn.
 
"The better days are here,"
Thinks Ralph,
Reassured by the remoteness of his
Loneliness,
In a united universe.
 
Riletto
Tyrian Colony
"Sun"day
March 8, 1998
 
A drear day, devoid of sympathy,
Divided into equal parts grey and
Distance to your door.
 
A robin appears wearing a trench coat,
Smoking an earthworm, wearing galoshes.
Recently from Mardi gras,
He has danced the Chapatula streets,
Machete in beak, looking for
"Romp to stomp."
A tough, well-traveled bird!
 
The rain gently falls along the walls,
Making soft footsteps on the lawn,
Full of regret and longing
For the impossible past,
Quietly angry,
Surprisingly
Tolerant.
 
The fireplace smoke rolls across the roof
Without rising.
Where is there to go?
What is there to do?
("Nothing...nowhere," replies the rain.)
Anger filters through tiny cracks between
Molecules in the attic,
Managing an escape so slow as to be
Unnoticed.
All the emotions get into a childish fight,
Out of boredom,
And I am crucified by regret.
 
Hanging here in the rain,
My blood mingles with the mud,
My elegant male body begins to
Liquify,
Out of boredom.
 
Why is love debased by imagery?
Why does memory haunt a lover's heart?
Why do I suffer empty pain
When I think your lush kisses?
Must I forever sing my songs
In a dream?
 
March 8, 1998
The Little Fisherman
 
Once upon a time there was a little fisherman
who, after applying for numerous permits, filing
an environmental impact statement, and paying
a "environmental bond" set off to fish in order
to pay the first installment on his delinquent taxes.
You see he was a poor fisherman who was tied to
the old-fashioned notion that he must support his wife
with his labor. He was the "fish-winner" in the family.
Meanwhile, his wife, who we shall call Ilsebelle, sat at home
in their humble but well-keep home reading N.O.W.
literature. After a few days she decided that her husband was
a typical male, bent on her captivity.
 
Meanwhile, the little fisherman managed to net a flounder,
albeit a very special flounder. This was a flounder that could talk.
Had this fact been widely known, he would surely have been declared
an endangered species. When the little fisherman realized that this was
a magical fish, he immediately thought that he might profit from the
encounter.
The fish offered a bribe, a wish, I he were to be set free.
The flounder granted his wish for a new home for his good wife.
 
When he returned home that night his wife was happy for the new
home, but suspicious that her husband might have an ulterior motive,
like the ones she read about in the literature.
Confused by her lack of enthusiasm he returned to the sea and recaptured
the flounder.
Again he returned to a bigger house, and a dour wife.
"What are you trying to buy me off for?" she demanded.
"What have you done behind my back that you must offer me this bribe, you
worm!"
 
About this time, two IRS agents arrived, looked at the house, and
promptly placed a lien on it for back taxes. His wife threatened
divorce, or "liberation" as she called it.
 
The fisherman headed back to the beach and called the flounder.
 
" I owe you an apology, Mr. Flounder. Catching you was clearly
beyond the scope of my environmental impact statement, and it has caused
lots of problems with the IRS. If I promise never to catch you again will
you grant
one last wish?" said the fisherman.
 
"Certainly," said the fish, "anything you want."
 
"Well I want two things," he replied.
"First change everything back to the way it was
so I can get the IRS off my back and convince my wife
that I'm not hiding anything,
and second, would you turn Gloria Steinhem into
a guppy."
 
"Done," said the flounder.
 
When he returned home everything was as it was,
and they all lived happily ever after,
except for Gloria.
 
 
///////////////////////|||||||||\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\
 
Emily Dickinson, Correct My Spelling!
March 11, 1998
 
I was found by myself today.
I wasn't really looking for me
But me I found along the way.
For you I thought I looked,
not me,
But there I was, meatless,
Herbal and suddenly conscious,
As if I had forgotten how to inhale
And suddenly swallowed the gale.
 
I thought I looked for you,
But when I asked, Why me?"
The answer was the man
I used to be,
The man I was before I knew there was a you,
Me!
 
I knew for sure I knew and would never forget again,
How to pray on my knees for the one that I loved,
How to ask for a heart that laughed,
For a mind by simple things pleased,
For a soul that healed,
And most for the senses that once inhaled life
In deep breaths!
 
 
Herod versus Juliette
 
I.
a small poem:
 
 
 
wings
 
 
 
me
 
 
II.
 
A bonedance named death.
 
 
III.
 
A Lebanese naval destroyer.
 
 
IV.
 
 
"This is all very interesting, but..."
 
 
V,
 
Please scroll down
 
 
 
VI.
 
Please salute when the general genuflects.
 
 
VI.
 
It is easier to surrender to wiseguys with money
It is easier to wash the theif's back
The hangman's noose,
A bonedance.
 
 
VII.
 
Herod rules our stars like Posidon
rules the passion of the sea
with his trident.
 
 
VII,
 
What if Hamlet had not driven Orphelia to suicide?
What if Juliette.......
Could there have yet been a happy ending?
Orphelia is the feminine of Orpheus
And Greek tragedies seldom have a happy end.
I curse the dark sea beach in your dream
with my teeth!
Into the underworld you have gone, Orphelia
Never to return to our sunny land.
Like Lorca's "Blood Wedding,"
All stabbed,
Poisoned by our their ambition.
Irony by the pitchfork.
 
 
VII.
 
a small poem:
a French kiss
from a gorilla.
 
 
VII.
 
a small poem:
 
the lover's memory
 
 
VII.
 
Be sure to remember
the sweet things,
the idle pleasantries,
the walks in the park,
in a rocking chair by the fire
in December,
when the colonials
light their windows
with a bayberry.
 
 
 
VII,
 
When I am here no more
my joy will remain.
 
 
IX.
 
Tomorrow is my gift to you
As the one chosen to make
the gift,
I grant it thee.
A day to wear the crown of
our native land,
a princess.
 
 
X.
 
Even Moses stopped at ten
 
 
 
On a Cote d'Azur Beach
 
As I sat there that day, in the island park in Nice,
I realized that something was going to go away,
That some invisible line had been drawn
And my fate had been drawn as well.
Venus had watched me as I fell back from love;
She had turned her back, unforgiving.
Why should she forgive me with all her beauty,
She always young, myself almost twenty-five?
 
The bench had a wonderful view of the park
Where two dozen French school girls did exercises,
All in uniform, all about the same size, all beautiful.
It was her way of telling me goodbye,
As if saying, "All this could have been yours,
if you hadn't betrayed the one you love."
I felt old, useless as I sat in the sun in the park,
Watching the lovers walk hand in hand,
The pale Mediterranean as a backdrop.
 
The college girls in the coffee bar,
The warm sea breeze,
The balcony view from the pension,
The feeling that this was the home I lost
A thousand lifetimes ago
And now must leave again.
At the hospital they warn me about
Consorting with prostitutes,
And the power of the heroin.
So much happened in a few days,
But it was clear that she would stay,
And I must go.
 
 
March 24, 1998
 
 
FISH FISHIN' FISH
 
Fish One: "I'll stick out my red tongue and pretend it's a worm
and bite the fish that snatches it."
 
Fish Two: "I'll pretend I mean to steal the worm and bite the fish next to
it."
 
[|;~]> [|;~]> [|;~]> [|;~]> [|;~]> [|;~]> [|;~]> [|;~]> [|;~]>
 
Fish One: "I'll dress up in my finest necklace of scale and when a he-fish
comes by I'll bite his tail, and by biting many tails have a fish."
 
Fish Two: "I will pretend to be dazzled by her necklace and secretly bite
her tail."
 
[|;~]> [|;~]> [|;~]> [|;~]> [|;~]> [|;~]> [|;~]> [|;~]> [|;~]>
 
Fish One: "I'll jump far above the water and dive down on a fish and bite."
 
Fish Two: "I'll wait here with my mouth open and wait for that fish to fall
from the sky."
 
[|;~]> [|;~]> [|;~]> [|;~]> [|;~]> [|;~]> [|;~]> [|;~]> [|;~]>
 
 
Fish One: "I'll pretend to be crippled and when a fish come to eat me I
will tail bite."
 
Fish Two: "Yucky, crippled fish."
 
[|;~]> [|;~]> [|;~]> [|;~]> [|;~]> [|;~]> [|;~]> [|;~]> [|;~]>
 
And so forth..
 
If you have any fish stories real or imaginary please attach and forward
to:
 
 
Rainsong for a Sailor
May 6, 1998
 
I hoist old doubts upon my shoulder
and dance past life towards the future;
a wise old bird, I know what ground to peck,
I know how one changed word can fix the deck.
 
I pack my bags, making ready for the road,
my heart sure and filled with all that it can hold;
tired songs fade and newer ones resound
and future sounds fill the air and circle, raining down.
 
As effortlessly as the rain that fell in a poem in your heart
when you listened to its sound, as it tore your soul apart.
I gain access to your shattered soul and hold it to my breast
and you and I lie still in our quiet evening rest.
 
Think of me as you savoir, I'll claim you as the best,
We'll ride the thunder clouds to heaven, the rivers raining down,
We'll sail the seawinds skyward, beyond forever's gates,
and in each other's arms, together turn to gold.
 
The Arrival
 
The airliner coasts to a stop, exhaling its last superauditory gasp.
It is a routine for the airfield, a simple, mechanical drama.
A man steps of the plane, his reflection twisted in its titanium shell.
He is an ordinary man, neither young nor old- just a man on a plane.
He looks for the one he knows is waiting, a woman not tall nor small,
But beautiful beyond the power of the years, a woman whose heart beats fast.
With a flutter of footwork, she advances as he lays his burden on the tarmac.
He smiles a smile that mixes the pain of the past with the evening breeze,
She smiles up at him through a tear she promised never to shed with ease.
 
Somewhere a silent page is turned in the karmic accountancy,
And a check mark is made next to the words "answered prayers."
The hand of no less than God turns the handle of the cosmic lathe
The sound produced, a Beatles echo, "Love is all you need.. Love is all.."
The effect produced by this simple event goes unnoticed by the others there,
But to these two, simple hearts it is a revelation, a beginning and an ending.
Who can say what it takes to feel joy? Is it the freeing of the captive bird?
Is it the innocence of a little girl's dance? Is it the return of a once lost chance?
Only the hand that turns the lathe in heaven knows for sure,
And the hearts of two lovers reunite after a separation too long to endure.
 
Carresino
May 26, 1998
I wll always remember the flounder on the wall at the bar where we danced.
The flounder, being so short, is a shallow-water fish,
prone to carry on conversations with fishermen,
granting wishes in exchange for its freedom.
Cinthi, the fisherman's daughter, once caught a flounder in her
small, sturdy but gentle hand. Because of her kind heart she set
the flattened fish free.
In return he used his magic eye to grant her a boon.
She was to be forever free from guilt and sorrow once and for all.
Her life was to be long and her future bright, all her sorrows little ones.
The flounder in turn became a great gull that soared above the clouds
that appeared snow-like as he flew over the earth.
But as he flew away from the fisherman's daughter,
his heart grew ever heavier until he could fly no more and became
a mere man, with a heart of red granite.
When he realized how her missed her kind face and gentle voice,
he began to sing a song so sad that the clouds turned to ice,
and the doves stopped their improvisations and grew tired and silent,
His song was the song of a gypsy far from home and the girl of his heart
whom he longed to cover with soft kisses led by his gentle hand.
But she had said her goodbye when she set him free,
and free he must be, rooted in the ground like a tree.
 
.
Quiet Places in the Heart
June 2, 1998
 
A whisper brings on the dawn
A memory as quiet as the morning bells
Stirs in the heart of our worn anticipation
Our lips make no movement as the day arrives
 
Through the rush of movement, a blur of emotion
We rush to our destination, our salvation
Sometimes we soar and race ahead of time itself
Sometimes we fall to the ground too tired to try
 
There are quiet places in the heart
Were the truth is know only to ourselves
Places where we dare to hope for a savior
From the past and from ourselves
 
Then the messages never come
As we wait for the time to depart
In the quiet place hope dies and falls apart
In the quiet place within my heart
 
If I travel a million miles and never rest
I will always hope to find you there
Waiting for me by the sea steps
Quiet and dark like my passion
 
In the quiet place within my heart
Where my love never dies
 
Brahma
The World Mountain, Tibet 1998
for Manudharma.
 
My food is served only by those of high caste.
It is only the food most fit for a god.
In reverence, my garment is mended by a child,
My ears bring melodies; the scent of flowers I behold.
I, in my turn, dabble in artistry to amuse the gods,
And they reward with gifts of duty, small favors to perform,
A smile from the dying grandmother after a pleasant life,
As if birth and death were little more than afternoon tea.
So I look down from my snow-covered peak at my past
And see the faces in the blue ice at the frozen glacial peak
Of people here and gone, the highland flock no more.
Faces, frozen , ice-masked faces, ask me when I come back home.
There is a joy in her eyes the day she was my bride,
Another Brahman, a pale, transparent ghost named "Hand of Dharma."
To marry destiny as a child guarantees happiness by submission.
Now her face lies gripped in ice, a memory, still pale and transparent --
Untouchable.
So I wrap close my robes of Buddha orange against the blast.
I close my eyes and see her smile no longer cold
I think I ‘d disappoint her young embrace and
Would she recognize my face?
So the past is frozen there , in the lake below the mountain.
It was always as it is, we're not allowed to see ourselves
And disturb one strand of Dharma's hair, or touch her living face.
We can visit there, but I grow old, and she lies cold.
And it is we, the Brahman, who must sing the song to celebrate
The world as the world, the inscrutability of its frozen face.
Not just today, but beyond the horizon of time itself where we must go
And climb the mountain of the world alone.
 
On its peaks we are tested by gods
Who hide in clouds there, waiting for those who pass the test and stay,
Never to be born and serve again, worn out ritual fire, surfaced in sweet smoke.
We sit at the feet of Lord Buddha, where,
Now divine, I braid strands of Dharma's hair.
_____________________2003__________________
I Become More Dangerous
02-FEB-03
I become more dangerous with age.
Knowing things, I sometimes oversimplify,
overstate, the heavily nuanced fact.
I remember the last time, and trouble the heedless
with "when will you ever learn?"
I have the real names for things.
I remember when you and I were young a foolish, too.
(Young and beautiful as well.)
I start sentences with "This is like the time..."
and finish with " and who would have thought it would come to this?"
I know why our music was better than
mindless monosyllabic tuples to the tune of mother's heartbeat
as heard by the embryo in the womb.
(Or is it just the sound of bombs falling?)
Sometimes I even know what the initials represent,
or why they called him "Jack."
(He liked to chop wood.)
Soon I will trouble your world no more with knowing things.
I won't be here to stop the children skating in the spring thaw,
joyriding after the prom, going off to war.
(You thought you looked good in the uniform.)
Soon you will be dangerous like me.
 Magician's Song
 08-APR-03
Sometimes my life seem like a butterfly in summer
a filiment of stardust in the rain.
Sometimes its another easy somber moment
rememebering a face from yesterday.
But now your awake
and I hear your restless murmer
I hear your walk across the heavens
to my door.
And I touch your face
and I know why I still love you
even though I'm not the one you really miss.
Sometime my life is full of anger and resentment
an you are there to tell me it's ok
And I am at peace even though its too confusing
for the little boy inside me to describe
 
Lily May
May 2003
 
Gazing down at your silent pain,
the grey clouds of winter
gather in the autumn sky.
Once when the summer was young,
and we thought we might escape the inevitable parting again,
we viewed a single cloud in an otherwise blue sky.
We called it the "cloud of hope."
Now the grey winter clouds gather in our sky,
as I gaze down at your silent pain,
and find no complaint,
only quiet breath,
counting down...
The north wind rattles the locked window, forcing the curtains to lightly furl,
When I look back,
you have gone.
The angels have come and done their work in an instant,
in that brief moment when I looked away.
Perhaps you could not leave while I watched;
you said your only regret was leaving me here alone.
God, in his mercy, has taken you,
but I hold you in my heart, and in my dreams,
after all these years.
Your memory is my "cloud of hope."
 
 
An Impromptu Poem:
3/2/2003
 
A vision for the taking is all I asked,
a freefrom riff to last a life,
to turn a corner and not turn back,
to find a feeling that didn't turn black.
 
So over the roof I traveled to pay the rent,
where Mose moaned the blues and a Camel burned,
thoughts for the taking, worth almost as much
as a time in the spotlight, though never enough.
 
A good life I had, though the next promises more,
a good life I had, but I could have done more
to help bring an end to the suffering and war
could have done more, could have done more.
 
 
Crawling Out
3/25/2003
 
The leaves are crawling out of the ground
to re-inhabit the tree.
I am crawling out of myself
to become myself.
the answer to all of life's misfortunes,
all life's sicknesses,
is love.
 
love has no shelf life
when bartered and withheld.
it falls to the ground
when we turn in upon ourself --
replaced by a hate
that consumes the budded branch.
 
the price we pay forever
in our ravaged forest lives
is the darkness in our eyes
where there could have been the sky
 
DOCUMENT OF THE FINAL HISTORY OF THE PLANET OARTH
 
A Creation Story from the 22'nd century
 
The first man, being called Adam, was quite satisfied with his place in
the cosmos, having been appointed "First Namer" by his manufacturers.
His day was pleasant enough.  Each morning he arose from his soft bed
in his suburban home in a place called "Eden Springs" and commuted to
his office in the Heavenly City on the back of a creature he had dubbed
"Llama." It had amused Adam to name the beast in this manner because
he was at that time toying with Buddhism as a world view, and for a
time had wanted to give every creature a religious sounding name.  It
was, alas, only a passing phase.The one unsatisfying aspect of his life was, in fact, the time he spent
aboard the Llama.
 
His wife,Eve, who was by the way named after the final twilight of the
day by Adam, was certainly beautiful, and had presented him with two
strong and healthy boys, Cane and Abel.
She was very pleasant, possessing an almost cat-like curiosity.  Eve
was also an accomplished chef. No, the problem was that commute to the
office, and that dusty, narrow and poorly maintained path that
connected Eden and the Heavenly City.
 
After years of choking down dust for hours on llamaback, Adam had
finally placed a "request for improvement" with the suburban authority.
It was this request that had ultimately led to the construction of the
first highway, the ultimate topic of this history.
 
So much for the background.
 
Today is the celebration of the opening of Heavenly Highway Number One.
 It is really quite a grand affair, with food and music and even a
visit from dignitaries of the manufacturing council, which is Adam's
ultimate employer. Eve really enjoyed the event as well, spending hours
conversing with the head caterer, a slim fellow from the city with a
pronounced lisp. Her interest in food was seemingly without end.  All
went well, and before long Adam was llamaback making his maiden voyage
to work on the composite gold-titanium surface that had appeared the
other morning outside his door.  It was a pleasure to be sure, and
several off ramps had been constructed for future use in the expanding
suburban milieu. Eve had stayed behind with the boys, who had,
strangely, taken a dislike to all things involving the city and this
wonderful, golden road, preferring to roam the wilderness practicing
something called "survivalism" and practicing a dislike for each other
in the process. All in all, the new road was a wonder of wonders, and
.....
 
(Editor's note: Here the document is fragmented.)
 
The third unanticipated result of the golden highway was an exodus of
urban population to the suburbs.  The caterer set up first a roadside
fruit stand and later a well-stocked strip mall at one of the unused
exits. Due to a curious longevity, he was able to build a great
commercial empire in the suburbs and eventually opened a college to
share his knowledge and grant what came to be called a Master's of
Business Administration degree.
Eve had been one of the first recipients of the degree.
 
created by: DAVID G. RILETT on Thursday, March 27, 2003
 
Prayer Flag
 
Life's song unfurls like a Tibetian prayer flag in the mountain wind.
Your question from a time and place, far away, almost forgotten.
The journey, one begun moves ever forward, one step following another.
At first the steps are eager, never pausing to look back to whence we came.
Slower now, I often rest and reflect on the journey, to find a reason
or to wonder at the dream we call a life.
Ever higher I climb towards the summit, spreading my wings, ready to
fly
away
to another mountain, another life, another journey.
 
Thanks you for sharing my journey, friend.
 
I know I have ill served all I have known at least once.
Sadly this is my nature, and this what I have learned from my journey
... my nature.
 
I ask all I have wronged to try and forgive, this was my kar ma,
I had to face the unsatisfactory truth of myself.
Perhaps someday I'll be ready to travel to the summit,
and disappear into the clouds forever.
4/24/2003
 
A Time Travellers Tale
5/25/2003
 
Deep and cold,
History plots quietly in the still, deep water
(beyond my notice)
as I amuse myself with my daily paddle up the Tigris
to the wattle hut of my sorceress for a game of Sumerian checkers.
She lives down a path marked by pots in a bog.
 
Civilization rules the day, but the day has passed.
Soon will come the flood and wild eternal waves will wash away the hut,
the witch, the world.
 
 
A Wal-Mart in Boston
 
The young teller, dressed in a tan hijab scarf, blue jean bibs and red
running shoes, mounted her bike to return home.
She was accompanied by her younger brother, sent to escort.
They pedal away as a car pulls into the handicapped spot by the door.
 
Two middle-aged men with physical ailments climb out and wait for their
sister to park in the lot.  The one with no hands decides to help the
shopping cart attendant by pushing carts through the automatic door
with his elbows.  His brother, on crutches, is silent.
 
Beautifully dressed Arab and Hindu women pass by with their husbands
and two Hispanic girls in halters and hot pants make a brief,
spectacular appearance.
 
The sun is warm and the day is long, and a steady stream of blue-bagged
shoppers emerges from the store's automatic doors steering carts with
swimming pools, plastic basketball hoops, beds in a bag, discount
movies, stereo systems, computer carts, and clothing.
 
A blue-bagged cornucopia.
 
Somewhere in the belly of the 1.2 acre-sized whale, Arlene searches for
a pattern to do a sewing project with the hundred or so fabric samples
Serena is distributing from her father's shop.
They have three patterns.
 
Sitting on the bench of recycled milk cartons by the main people port,
I wonder what else might be found inside.
The original copy of Alan Sherman's letter to his muddah from Camp Granada?
A one-transistor AM radio?
A video tape of "Yellow Submarine," director's cut?
(in a pretty blue bag of course!)
A burka for the two hot-panted Hispanic girls?
A copy of Gerald Ford's autobiography?
Bennie Carter playing "When Lights are Low"?
I know with certainty that somewhere in that foot-wearing-out place my wife is happy.
 
July 13, 2003
 
Kurdistan -- a poem for my friend Denn-Free
 
each house has a silent, cold flame in the front window.Lakes
the whole village burns but is not consumed by the flame.
the forest roads are straight and march to an oil-pump drummer.
we pass a sign with "God-blessed yogurt" in bright colors.
 
in one yard a frozen starling stands motionless and erect.
sparrows perch, then fly away, watched from above by the gull,
head tilting as if struck by a curious sight.
we burn with the need to be far away from this place.
 
gravity suspends, stoping our crazy-corner trainwreck
while we explore places faces never go
a big blue balloon world, larger than the moon,
paints itself yellow in the green fog air.
 
July, 2003
June 2014
 